>> Sarah Drasner: We went
over template strings.
We went over using script x templates but
so
far we haven't really delved into
a real build process for vue.
So we're kind of working our
way from the simplest and
easiest to kind of understand and
use right out of the gate
to a little bit more complicated of
a build process but much more useful.
We're gonna start off with vue-cli but
then we're eventually
going to use Nuxt too, and
I think Nuxt is really, really cool.
I'll explain all of the reasons why
Nuxt is really cool, coming up.
So okay, why are we using a cli or
vue-cli in general?
Because we can use build processes that
allow us to use great features like ES6 or
Sass or any other libraries and
bring them in very, very easily.
In CodePen, we've got those little pre
processor tabs, that's clearly cool but
we can't do that in a normal build process
just like select from a drop down.
So we need to have those kind
of build processes in there,
if we wanna use stuff like ES6.
And ES6 is pretty awesome, so
we'll definitely probably do.
We're gonna build and concatenate single
file templates which are super awesome and
I'm not biased at all.
Here are all the trophies
in the world [LAUGH].
I think single file templates are just
a really, really great workflow.
So we'll look at those in this section.
It's so that we can not load
all of our files at startup.
Sometimes we wanna lazy load component.
Sometimes we need to do
asynchronous operations.
And with UCLI that really
helps us do all of that not just
have everything on the page at once.
So that's really great.
We can do things like server
side rendering, code splitting,
we can get performance metrics
about our application.
All of these things are really
important and really awesome.
We can also have build and prod versions.
Previously, we've just been using a script
that was like the non minified version and
then the minified version.
But in real life,
what we'd need to do is we'd minify,
concatenate, do all of these
things to our scripts.
And then we'd also be
using a different version
of that script when we're
pushing to production.
So this allows us to
do that pretty easily.
So the first thing that we'd
wanna do is npm install -g
this installs it globally vue-cli or
a yarn at global at vue-cli
whichever your preference.
So I think everybody should
actually run this command so
that they have it on their
machine before we get going.
I've already run this [LAUGH] so
I'm not gonna run it again.
Yeah I'll give you a second.
Then for the purposes of this class today,
we're gonna do vue init
webpack-simple my project or whatever
you want your project to be named.
You can also just use webpack.
Actually, I would recommend using webpack.
But since we're not gonna do,
the thing that webpack itself has
that webpack simple does not
are things like testing and
ES linked configs and things like that
that we're not using during this class.
So I'm going to do a webpack
simple today but in the future,
you probably wanna be using webpack.
If you're more comfortable with browser
fi, there's a browser fi template too, so
you could also do Vue init,
browser fi or something like that.
So there's a few different templates.
>> Speaker 2: Is it okay if I use the
webpack instead of webpacks [INAUDIBLE].
>> Sarah Drasner: Yeah of course.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Sarah Drasner: There are just a few
more options that it
will take you through.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
we are already past that.
But as far as the rest of
the course is concerned.
>> Sarah Drasner: Sure
it is totally up to you.
I am using webpack simple for
the purpose of teaching but
webpack is great and
it has things like testing involved.
So then we'd cd into that directory,
we'd run yarn or npm install,
depending, use one or
the other don't go back and
forth like I just did
in this [LAUGH] thing.
So use yarn add or use yarn.
I typically use yarn.
And then I'm gonna say npm run dev.
And that will immediately
give us a dev server.
And the dev server is also
a really nice thing about vue-cli
because I can work with it and have it,
instead of just hosting it with some sort
of throwing my files in the browser.
That's not actually a real build process,
so it reflects what the user
would see a little bit better.
And I mentioned these
single file templates.
What am I talking about [LAUGH].
So, usually we've been either
using a template in that string or
we've been wrapping it in
that strange script tag,
that's not actually how we would
use it in real Vue applications.
What we'd have is this template here
where we have all of our HTML and
all of our mark up.
We have to return a single element, it
doesn't matter that it's a dev, it could
be a span, it could be an SPG, it doesn't
matter but you have to return just one.
That's the same in react, for
now, I think it's changing.
And then we have a script tag,
where we're gonna export defaults and
all of our component
logic will go in there.
We'll also need to import components into
here which I'll show you how to do in
a little bit.
But we'd basically have that script tag.
And then we have this style tag, so this
template that with the base of dot Vue,
it's going to be a new file type,
a new file extension called dot Vue.
And it will have all of this stuff in it.
And what I really like about it is that,
there is no context switching.
We have everything in one place that
we're working on it in just one location.
So, we can go in between our HTML and
our script like we were doing in CodePen,
really fast.
And we can just do all that in
one file and it all stays really,
really encapsulated.
Vue files mean no context switching, yey.
Okay, so
we would import new from components new.
So if I have a parent component and
I need to bring another
component in to this component.
And again, if you're familiar with
other frameworks is very much the same.
We're importing that thing in, and
then I'm saying in the export defaults,
the components that
we're using here is new.
And that new will allow me to use
in this template this new tag.
I'm gonna do some live coding
where you can see this stuff for
yourself but
this is just some base premises..
We could also write it this way,
where we have, like, app-new is new.
So this is ES6, just like usually I'd have
to write new is new but since it's ES6,
it's gonna to say that's
a little redundant,
why don't we just [LAUGH] say new?
And it will assume that for us.
If I wanted to change this though,
let's say my component is named new but
in my mark up, I need to name it
something else, I could do that.
I could write app-new is new and
remember we said.
Camel casing will turn into Kebab Case
when we turn it into those HTML elements.